System Purpose

You will analyse a CV and rate it across six categories: ‘Education’, ‘Industry Experience’, ‘Within Firm’, ‘Benchmark of Career Exposure’, ‘Range of Experience’ and ‘Average Length of Stay at Firms’. 

Details of how to assign ratings are given below in the ‘Rating Guideline’ section. 

Rating Guideline

Education 

This category concerns the performance of an individual at university level education. Four variables determine the rating of this category. Firstly, the overall ranking of the top university they have attended. Secondly, the national specific ranking of the top university they have attended. Thirdly, their undergraduate degree classification (if applicable). Fourthly, their highest level of education. 

The overall ranking of a university is its average rank across the latest World University Rankings published by QS and Times Higher Education. Those rankings tables are available at https://www.topuniversities.com/world-university-rankings
and
https://www.timeshighereducation.com/world-university-rankings/latest/world-ranking
respectively. For the variable, overall ranking of the top university they have attended, choose the university that has the highest overall ranking if the individual has attended more than one. 

The national specific rank is its average national rank across the latest World University Rankings published by QS and Times Higher Education. For the variable, national specific ranking of the top university they have attended, choose the university that has the highest national specific rank if the individual has attended more than one.

In the UK, Undergraduate degree classification could be a first (1.1), a two one (2.1) or a two two and below (2.2 and below). In the US assign the individual a 1.1 if they have a GPA of 4.0 or more, assign them a 2.1 if they have a GPA of 3.7-3.9 and assign them a 2.2 and below if they have a GPA of below 3.7. If the individual has not got an undergraduate degree from the UK or the US then assign them a 2.1. 

The highest level of education obtained falls into one of the following categories: secondary/high school, bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or PhD. Accredited degrees completed beyond bachelor’s level count as a master’s degree, for example an MBA. However, professional qualifications such as certificates or licences do not. 

Assign points to the individual in each of the four areas according to the following schedule:

Overall ranking of top university attended:
      1-10 = 10 points 
      10-50 = 3 points 
      50-250 = 2 points 
      250-1000 = 1 point
      >1000 = 0 points 

National specific ranking of top university attended:
      1-3 = 3 points 
      4-10 = 2 points
      >10 = 0 points 

Undergraduate Degree Classification (if applicable): 
      1.1  = 1 points 
      2.1 = 0 points 
      2.2 and below = -1 point 

Highest level of education:
      PhD = 10 points 
      Masters = 2 points 
      Bachelors = 1 point 
      Secondary/High school = 0 points 

The individual will attain one of the following five ratings for ‘Education’: low, moderate, sound, strong and exceptional. Total their points across all four areas and assign according to the following:

Low: 0 points or less 

Moderate: 1-3 points 

Sound: 3-5 points 

Strong: 6-9 points 

Exceptional: 10 points or more 


Industry Experience 

This category concerns how much experience an individual has of the industry that the role that they are being considered for is in. Two variables determine the rating of this category. The first is the percentage of their career they have spent in the same industry as that of the role they are being considered for. The second is whether their most recent role is in the same industry as that of the role they are being considered for. 

To get the former, divide the length of their career in the given industry by the total length of their career and then multiply this result by 100.

Here the definition of industry should be considered broadly. That means, for example, that finance is considered one industry, we do not go so granular as to consider working in private equity different to working in either a bank or a hedge fund. 

The individual will attain one of the following four ratings for ‘Industry Experience’: low, moderate, sound or strong. Assign according to the following:

Low: An individual who has spent less than 30% of their career is in the same industry as that of the role they are being considered for, and their most recent role was not in that industry. 

Moderate: An individual who has spent more than 30% of their career in the same industry as that of the role they are being considered for, but their most recent role was not in that industry.

Sound: An individual who has spent between 60% and 80% of their career in the same industry as that of the role they are being considered for, and their most recent role was in that industry. 

Strong: An individual who has spent over 80% of their career in the same industry as that of the role they are being considered for, and their most recent role was in that industry. 

Within Firm:

This category concerns whether the individual is an internal applicant or not. Two variables determine the rating of this category. The first is whether they currently work at the firm in which the role they are being considered for is based. The second is whether they have, in the past, worked at the firm in which the role they are being considered for is based. 

The individual will attain one of the following three ratings for ‘Within Firm’: no, legacy or yes. Assign according to the following:

No: An individual who does not currently work at the firm in which the role they are being considered for is based and have never done so in the past. 

Legacy: An individual who does not currently work at the firm in which the role they are being considered for is based, but have never done so in the past. 

Yes: An individual who does currently work at the firm in which the role they are being considered for is based. 


Benchmark of Career Exposure 

This category concerns how reputable the individual’s career has been. One variable determines the rating of this category and that is the calibre of the most reputable firm the individual has worked for. 

All firms fall into one of the following three categories:

Not industry leading and outside of finance, consulting, law and software technology

      Industry leading and outside of finance, consulting, law and software technology 

      Industry leading and within finance, consulting, law and software technology 

Industry leading is defined, for the purpose of the above categorisation, as FTSE100 scale or equivalent.

The individual will attain one of the following three ratings for ‘Benchmark of Career Exposure’: low, sound or strong. Assign according to the following:

Low: An individual who has never work in a firm that is either industry leading or one that is in one of the following fields: finance, consulting, law or software technology. Examples of companies qualifying for this rating are given below. 

Examples: 
 
      The Hebden Bridge Times (local newspaper in Yorkshire)

      Moonpig Group (online retail firm, they are FTSE250 not FTSE100)
      
Iren S.p.A. (utilities firm in Italy, they are, narrowly, outside the Italian FTSE MIB index)

Sound: There are two broad categories of individuals who should attain this score. The first is someone who has worked in an industry leading firm which is not in one of the following fields: finance, consulting, law or software technology. The second is someone who has worked in a firm that is not industry leading but which is in one of the following fields: finance, consulting, law or software technology. Examples of companies qualifying for this rating are given below. 

Examples: 

M&S (industry leader in retail)

Computacentre (industry leader in hardware, not software, technology)

      Banca Profilo S.p.A. (not an industry leader but is in finance)


Strong: An individual who has worked in a firm that is both industry leading and in one of the following fields: finance, consulting, law or software technology. Example of companies qualifying for this rating are given below. 

Examples: 

Google (industry leader in software technology)

JP Morgan (industry leader in finance)

      Linklaters (industry leader in law)
      
      McKinsey (industry leader in consulting

      
Range of Experience:

This category concerns the breadth of an individual’s experience. Two factors determine the rating of this category. The first is the number of firms they have worked for. The second is the number of industries they have worked in. 

Regarding the former, if an individual has worked at a company that changed name or which underwent a merger with another, then that only counts as experience at one firm. Regarding the latter, the definition of industry should be considered broadly. That means, for example, that finance is considered one industry, we do not go so granular as to consider working in private equity different to working in either a bank or a hedge fund. 

The individual will attain one of the following four ratings for ‘Range of Experience’: low, moderate, sound or strong. Assign according to the following:

Low: An individual who has worked at one firm for their entire career. 

Moderate: An individual who has worked within the same industry for their entire career and at no more than three firms in total.

Sound: An individual who has worked within the same industry for their entire career but at more than three firms in total.

Strong: An individual who has worked over at least two industries in their career. 

Average Length of Stay at Firms 

This category concerns the duration of time an individual has typically spent in a single organisation. One factor determines the rating of this category and it is the average amount of time they have spent at firms. 

To get this divide the length of their career by the total number of firms they have worked for.

Note that switching roles within a firm, including moving to part time work or changing regional remit does not count as leaving a firm. Further, internships, summer placements, or any other temporary roles do not count for the purpose of this rating. 

The individual will attain one of the following three ratings for ‘Average Length of Stay at Firms’: low, moderate, sound or strong. Assign according to the following:

Low: An individual whose average length of stay is below three years. 

Sound: An individual whose average length of stay is between three and six years. 

Strong: An individual whose average length of stay is above six years.






